[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
john kay
and naga manchetti our headlines this
morning
the coronavirus vaccine gets the royal
seal of approval as the queen
encourages everyone to get the jab that
it's
it is obviously difficult for people to
if they've never had a
vaccine because they ought to think
about other people rather than
themselves
in memory of martin a new law aimed at
tightening security at events in the
light
of the manchester arena bombing comes a
step closer
are smart motorways smart enough
mps are to investigate the safety of the
routes that are designed to keep
traffic moving good morning arsenal save
their season with a late goal that keeps
alive their only hope of a trophy as
they stay in the europa league
and ease the pressure on their manager
and we're into a spell of much dry
weather now across the uk
but the nights will be chilly we're not
done with frosty days yet
i'll have a full forecast here on
[Music]
breakfast
morning it's friday the 26th of february
top story is the queen has said that
people who are hesitant
about receiving a kovid jab should think
of others rather than themselves
it was a rare display of personal
opinion but the queen made the comments
during
a video call to health leaders in charge
of the vaccine rollout
here's our royal correspondent nicholas
whitchell
they both had their vaccinations last
month and though the duke is now in
hospital being treated for a non-coveted
infection
the queen unperturbed it would seem by
her husband's absence
was earlier this week on a video
conference with health officials from
across the uk
the vaccination programme had stirred
memories
well having um lived in the war it it's
very much like that you know
when everybody had the same idea and i
think this this has rather sort of
inspired that
hasn't it it's a bit like a plague isn't
it
because it's not only here that that
we've got the
virus but it's everywhere
so it's it's it's a it's a strange
battle that everybody's actually
exciting
but how had the queen found her own
vaccination
well once you've had the vaccine you
have a feeling of
you know you're protected which is i
think very important and as far as i can
make out it was quite
harmless it was very quick
and i've had lots of letters from people
who've been very surprised by how easy
it was to get the vaccine
and the jab was but it didn't hurt at
all
there was understanding for people who
are nervous of the vaccination
but a reminder that everyone has a
responsibility to have it
that it's it is obviously difficult for
people to if they've never had a
vaccine because they ought to think
about other people rather than
themselves
and there was a message to the
scientists who developed the vaccines
and all the staff who are administering
them
it is remarkable how quickly the whole
thing has
has been done and so many
people have had the vaccine already so
you will have to keep up the good work
nicholas whitchell bbc news had a chance
to hear it all
the former first minister of scotland
alex salmond will be questioned by
members of the scottish parliament
today over his claims of a malicious and
concerted
conspiracy against him it's part of an
inquiry into the mishandling of sexual
harassment complaints about him which
were later disproven in court
the current first minister nicholas
sturgeon a former ally of alex salmond
has dismissed his claims
the supreme court will rule today on
whether shamima begum who
left london as a teenager to join the
so-called islamic state in syria
should be allowed back into the uk she
wants to appeal against a decision by
the government to remove
her british nationality miss bagan was
15 when she and two other schoolgirls
from east london made that journey
six years ago she's currently in a
refugee camp
in northern syria mps are to investigate
the safety of so-called smart
motorways which use the hard shoulder as
an extra lane
during busy periods it comes after a
coroner said that the deaths of two men
on a stretch of smart motorway near
sheffield in 2019
could have been avoided as our transport
correspondent caroline davis explains
jason mercer was driving to work in june
he was on the m1 near sheffield a smart
motorway with no hard shoulder
when he had a minor collision with
another driver both pulled over
but the cameras didn't see them the lane
wasn't closed
and both drivers were killed by a lorry
i should have been in the car that day
but i was i was ill
since her husband's death claire mercer
has been campaigning against smart
motorways
you can be the best driver in the world
and your tire can burst or someone can
slam into you
and if there is not a hard shoulder you
are more at risk
smart motorways mean that the hard
shoulder operates fully or partially as
a live lane with traffic
today the transport select committee has
said it will launch an investigation
into smart motorways the technology is
not in place that highways england
promised
and quite frankly i think they need to
be held to account we need to
investigate
much more thoroughly whether smart
motorways really are safe enough to
continue
but claire isn't convinced the
investigation will go far enough
i'm just worried that it's going to be
yet another busy wash
busy work that it doesn't achieve
anything it'll just come back and say
oh we just need a few more tweaks and a
few more bits and pieces
we don't we need the hard shoulder back
smart motorways were created to help
ease congestion without building an
extra lane of traffic
but given the way our lives have changed
during the pandemic some have questioned
whether they're even needed
the department for transporters said
that they welcome the inquiry and that
the transport secretary
has expressed concerns over smart
motorways and committed
500 million pounds to safety
improvements but some
still want smart motorways to be removed
altogether
caroline davis bbc news
in hollywood lady gaga's dog walker has
been
shot by an assailant who then stole to
the singer's french bulldogs the man is
recovering in hospital but the dogs koji
and gustav are still missing
lady gaga has offered a reward of half a
million dollars for their safe return as
our north america correspondent david
willis reports
this leafy hollywood street formed the
backdrop to a crime
so audacious that even the city's
filmmakers might deem it implausible
it was here late on wednesday night that
a shot rang out
it was the screaming that alerted me i
heard screaming like a lot of it
and well i couldn't tell i thought it
sounded like a man
in extreme distress the man in question
was lady gaga's dog walker
he'd been shot in the chest by two men
who pulled up in a car
and made off with two of her french
bulldogs
a rescue worker was pictured retrieving
a third dog from the man's grasp
as he lay bleeding on the pavement
police say he
struggled with the suspects before being
hit by a bullet from a semi-automatic
handgun
the incident comes just over a month
after lady gaga won
rave reviews for her performance at
president biden's inauguration ceremony
she's yet to comment on the incident but
has offered a 500
000 no questions asked reward
for the dog's safe return
frequently spotted with her pets in tow
lady gaga
is known to be passionate about them and
highly protective
they proved the inspiration for her own
pet product line
and miss asia the one that evaded
capture even has its own instagram page
with more than 220 000 followers
french bulldogs are in high demand here
but they're notoriously difficult to
breed
and pedigree puppies can fetch as much
as ten
thousand dollars apiece the dog walker
is said to be in a critical condition
but he
is expected to survive the question for
detectives
was this a random attack or was he
targeted
because of his celebrity client david
willis bbc news
los angeles
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news